            	Aria Shishegaran | 🇳🇱Amsterdam, Netherlands | (+31) 6 856 37507 | aria.shishegaran@gmail.com | LinkedIn | Github
Accomplished Product Manager with 7+ years of experience in on-demand, streaming, accommodation, advertising, and e-commerce sectors. Adept at bridging the gap between vision and execution, leading cross-functional teams through all stages of product development lifecycles. Proven track record of launching successful products that drive user engagement and business growth. Entrepreneurial mindset with experience in launching and scaling startups.
WORK EXPERIENCE


   Senior Technical Product Manager - SEO | April 2022 - June 2024 (Contract) | 🇬🇧London, UK
BeInCrypto.com
BeInCrypto is one of the largest crypto news websites globally, operating within +24 regions and languages with an accumulated traffic of +40M every single month.
Led the preparation and compliance over the new INP metric (replacing FID) by google to prevent potential CrUX score damages, achieving below 200ms for 75% of users globally.
Implemented PartyTown.js to offload major render-blocking resources off of the main thread to increase the 
  Senior Product Manager L3 - Checkout & Post-Booking | Sep 2022 – April 2024 | 🇳🇱Amsterdam, Netherlands
Vio.com
Vio.com, a price comparison meta search engine and OTA with 5.5M MAU, serves +10M customers annually by monitoring industry prices and showcasing the best deals. Customers are redirected to the provider with the best prices or to Vio's own OTA if our own offer is the superior deal. We make money either by referrals or commissions.
Owned the Checkout roadmap and OKRs aligned with company strategy, enabling the 10% (4% to 14%) shift from redirect bookers to directs and a 2% total conversion rate uplift by launching Checkout v2 with a 7-member cross-functional team, with +100 improvements like enhanced cancellation policy communication, price transparency, error handling, and input forms.
Increased and stabilized our TrustPilot score from 3.9 to 4.3 by creating a behavior-based user flow to collect feedback from people with the likelihood of higher ratings.
Identified primary causes of post-booking cancellations and crafted varied strategies to mitigate them, achieving an overall 8% reduction in cancellations in the first hour after booking leading to recovery of approximately €30K in net profits and €600K of Gross Booking Value/month.
Directed the creation of a simplified error notification system, resulting in a 16% recovery of users facing issues and subsequently abandoning the checkout process.
Launched our ChatGPT[1][2][3] and Chrome Extension(alpha) plugins with the help of 1-2 engineers in the span of 2 days each to receive product feedback and ideate further.
 Lead Product Manager - Cloud PoS + Commerce Platform | Dec 2020 – Jul 2022 | 🇮🇷Tehran, Iran
Vitrin + Daramad
Vitrin, a commerce platform, similar to Shopify and Square, with 5M MAU, brings vendor’s online and in-person sales channels under one roof. It also integrates with on-demand platforms and marketplaces, expanding vendors’ reach and sales potential while simplifying their day-to-day management.
Directed the hiring of 6 PMs as direct reports and led 6 cross-functional teams of total +40 members to successfully launch 2 major product lines, ‘Vitrin for Restaurants’ and ‘Vitrin Cloud PoS’, owned the portfolio roadmap and OKRs in alignment with our mission, generating an extra €1.5M in revenue per year and 4X growth in our restaurant market share from 2.5% (~250) to 10% (~1000).
Built a culture of radical candor, orchestrated the development of PMs by leveraging exponential feedback loops, created PM competency models, advocated for the perpetual development of the PMs, and streamlined the product development process, thereby amplifying team morale and outcomes leading to 25% decrease in time-to-market, 30% increase in employee-NPS, 15% increase in product and design related candidate referrals.
Successfully led the negotiations for partnering with top on-demand marketplaces, payment processors, and delivery services to have them integrated into our marketplace. 
Enhanced NPS by 35 points (from 20 to 55), facilitated by a more robust communication pipeline between PMs, CS, Sales, Product Marketing, and our customers.
Launched features such as sales channel integration, food inventory management, courier management, ingredients, etc.)
Seized a $200M POS opportunity and led a team to launch Cloud POS. Used Flutter & gRPC for a cross-platform POS client with 99% crash-free sessions and 250K transactions. Integrated with Iran's top 5 PSPs, reducing order submission time from 75s to 43s. Deployed V1.0 across 70 premier Iranian chain-restaurant locations.
Led the launch of our CRM & self-serve marketing products ‘Dobare’, increasing vendor’s revenue and retention metrics by a 25% and 35% through various self-service marketing tools, improved vendor storefront speed in compliance with Lighthouse guidelines (steady +87 score), and leveraged data and user diary studies to develop +10 new features and rectify +120 bugs.
Co-Founder & CEO | Mar 2019 – Sep 2020 | 🇮🇷Tehran, Iran
Lyft.ir
Lyft.ir, similar to Airbnb Experiences and Ticketmaster, acted as a double-sided marketplace between guests and hosts, letting hosts launch activities for customers to browse and choose from. It became the go-to marketplace for concerts and activities before shutting down due to COVID-19.
Secured $20K pre-seed funds, grew the company from 2 to 15 people, surpassed KPIs by 2X, and networked with +100 musicians and +500 entertainers to create real value.
Held 5 music festivals over 3 months, featuring +40 artists and generating ~100 new partnership requests, leading to the sale of +10,000 tickets, a 200% boost in direct traffic, 400% rise in total traffic, 150% increase in AOV, 250% growth in GMV, and 200% growth in our contribution margins.
  Senior Product Manager - Driver Experience | Aug 2018 – Mar 2019 | 🇮🇷Tehran, Iran
Snapp! Super App
Snapp!, Iran’s leading on-demand marketplace and everything super app with 65M Users and 5.5M DAUs, also being world’s 7th biggest on-demand taxi service, providing a plethora of options for users to choose from for their day-to-day needs, from taxi and groceries to hotels and plane tickets.
Led a team of 6-7, gained a 15% increase in biker fulfillment rate by holding regular weekly online surveys with over 8,000 bikers and finding and prioritizing their top pain-points.
Increased push notification delivery from 60% to 83%, improved crash-free sessions from 70% to 92%, increased biker NPS from 20 to 45.
Led a team of 3-4 towards a creative journey to completely revamp our website, released online driver registration & verification features.
Achieved an A+ score with GTMetrix, reduced FCP from 3.2s to 1.6s, reduced TTFB from 2.5s to 250ms.
Signed-up 20,000 new bikers, reduced biker activation time from around 5 hours to around 1 hour.
 Co-Founder & CEO | Mar 2017 – Aug 2018 | 🇮🇷Tehran, Iran
Zyng 
Zyng, similar to FameBit, is an influencer marketing marketplace that bridged the gap between brands and influencers, while also offering a fully-managed tier for brands seeking to delegate the entire operation to us.
Bootstrapped the company's growth from ground up to $500K in annual revenue and +100K in net profits, expanding the team from 2 to 10, and pioneered the development of an automated reporting system, fake-follower detection, and live influencer monitoring to enhance B2B operations; launched +100 impactful social campaigns with Iran’s top 50 tech and FMCG firms.
Delivered a total of +5M followers, achieving +50M in reach and +70M in impressions for our clients.
  Product Manager - Monetization | May 2016 – Mar 2017 | 🇮🇷Tehran, Iran
  Navaar 
Navaar, similar to Audible, is Iran’s leading audiobook and gated-content platform with 4M MAU and 300K Active Subscribers, providing a range of audio services for purchase or streaming including audiobooks, podcasts, short-series, and book summaries to its customers with a subscription or as a freemium type of content.
Led a 10-member team in re-envisioning our mobile app to align with a mobile-first strategy, achieving 1M MAU. Launched multi-tier subscriptions garnering +1000 subscribers on D7, 5,500 on M1, and 60K in Y1. Conducted A/A and A/B testing on subscription and checkout pages, refining conversion funnels, and introduced a segmented push notification feature, boosting GMV by 12%.
Served as a customer support specialist for a month, gaining key customer insights. Overhauled support and ticketing processes, reducing response time from 1.5h to 35m. Partnered with a new infrastructure provider, cutting initial playback time from 4s to 1.3s, and streamlined development and testing protocols, tripling delivery efficiency.
  Product Designer (Part-Time) | Sep 2016 – Feb 2017 | 🇮🇷Tehran, Iran
GoBaba (Acquired by Snapp!) 
GoBaba, similar to GoJek, an on-demand motorbike taxi and delivery service, later sold to Snapp!, and rebranded as Snapp! Box, now Iran's leading taxi bike platform.
Designed and delivered a set of designs for driver and customer apps via Sketch in the order of 2 months.
Held daily sessions with drivers to maximize the speed of product delivery. also heavily benchmarked Uber, Shipp, Postmates, etc.
Achieved impactful insights about competitors and their weaknesses and strong points by working part-time for various on-demand services.


ENTREPRENEURIAL & PERSONAL PROJECTS


TEAM APP – Social Commerce
Product Designer (Contract) – Jan 2019 – Mar 2019
THIS WILL FLY - Affordable Private Jet Charter (Failed)
Co-Founder & Product Manager – Jan 2016 – May 2016
ZOODAR – On-demand Grocery Delivery (Failed)
Co-Founder & Product Manager – Feb 2015 – Dec 2015
CAFÉ TUES - Find Venues based on Musical Taste (Failed)
Co-Founder & Product Designer – Sep 2014 – Jan 2015


PRODUCT  DOMAIN KNOWLEDGE
Product Management, Product Strategy, Product Design, Product Development, ROI Analysis, Agile Methodologies, Dual-track Agile, Project Planning, UX Design, Design Systems, Product Requirements Document, Product Briefs, Competitive Analysis, Go-to-Market Strategy, Effective Communication, Relationship Building, Product Lifecycle Management, Stakeholder Relationship Management, B2B, Product Discovery and Benchmarking, Product Strategy & Roadmaps, OKRs, Impact Sizing, Analytical Decision Making, A/B & Multivariate Testing.


SPECIALIZED DOMAIN KNOWLEDGE (AI/ML/Payments/Commerce)
Commerce: Conversion Rate Optimization, Abandonment Recovery, Input Form Optimization, Payment Fields Optimization, Urgency Triggers, Post-payment Personalization, Exit-Intent Popups, Express Checkout and Autofill of Customer Information.
AI/ML: LLMs (Large Language Models), Quantization, RAGs (Retrieval Augmented Generation), Agents (CrewAI, AutoGen), LlamaIndex, LangChain, OpenAI API, Ollama, GANs (Generative Adversarial Networks), . 
Payments: PCI-DSS, SCA, PSD2.0,  Card Tokenization & Vaults, Pay-in & Pay-out Process, VCCs (Virtual Credit Cards).
TOOLS
Looker, DataDog, Slack, Asana, FullStory, HotJar, Excel, PowerPoint, Word, MetaBase, Google Analytics, Jira, Confluence, Miro, Figma, SQL




CERTIFICATIONS

Career Essentials in Generative AI by Microsoft and LinkedIn
Generative AI: The Evolution of Thoughtful Online Search
Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
Streamlining Your Work with Microsoft Bing Chat
What is Generative AI
Introduction to ChatGPT
Ethics in the Age of Generative AI
Microsoft 365 Copilot First Look
AI Fundamentals
Data Rights Foundations
Generative AI Concepts
Learning Data Governance


LANGUAGES
EDUCATION
Fluent: English, Persian | Elementary: Dutch
Bachelor of Software Engineering, Azad University (IAU) (2011-2013)





